# RFC: Full SAML support

- **Created:** *2022-03-08*
- **Owner:** @mariusandra (previously @paolodamico)
- **GitHub issues:** [#5647](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/5647)

## ⚠️⚠️⚠️ THIS RFC IS OUT OF DATE AND ITS CONTENTS DO NOT REFLECT HOW SAML OR SSO ACTUALLY WORKS AT POSTHOG.

This RFC served as the basis of discussion to implement SSO enforcement and multitenancy SAML. However, during implementation phase a bunch of changes were made to improve the user experience, code maintenance and overall quality of the feature. This RFC is kept as an archive only. Please refer to the [SSO docs](https://posthog.com/sso) for the latest information.

## Overview

Currently we support SAML only on self-hosted. More users have requested support for this feature on the Cloud version too. This RFC contains a technical proposal for how to implement full multitenant SAML support.

On multitenant environments SAML can present a risk because these servers are asserting to the identity of a user, and we can't verify that a specific server has permission to assert the identity of a specific user (e.g. I could create a malicious SAML server that says I'm `admin@posthog.com` with no permissions over that login). To address this, we'll introduce domain verification through DNS so that users configuring SAML can also validate they have permissions over a specific domain.

## Background

From the original SAML issue on GitHub,
> This is a compliance feature that a lot of large-scale organizations require for full widespread rollout. When working at a large org, having a centralized place for provisioning and managing users can make the onboarding/offboarding process smoother and help reduce security risks. There's a great [Slack thread](https://posthogusers.slack.com/archives/CT7HXDEG3/p1628859965082200) by a community member about the importance of SAML and [this study](https://www.onelogin.com/press-center/press-releases/97-percent-of-saas-vendors-backing-saml-based-single-sign-on) by OneLogin in which they find that up to 97% of SaaS support have support (or plans) for SAML. 
## Proposal

### Self-hosted
1. Self-hosted instances remain with single-tenant SAML support (i.e. only one SAML provider for each instance), but we drop `SAML_ENFORCED` in favor of a `SSO_ENFORCEMENT` instance-level attribute that supports `saml`, `google-oauth2`, `github` & `gitlab`. We redirect automatically to the provider's login page if SSO is enforced (solves [#7535](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/7535)).

### PostHog Cloud
1. On PostHog Cloud create a separate model for `OrganizationConfiguration` where we track all SAML parameters (ACS URL, Entity ID, X509 certificate and 4 attribute names) at the organization-level.
2. Before SAML can be enabled, admins have to verify ownership of a specific domain by adding a TXT record to their domain with a random 32-byte secret. An organization can verify multiple domains, but a domain may belong to only one organization. `OrganizationDomain` model for this.
3. The `OrganizationDomain` also includes a `jit_provisioning_enabled` attribute. If enabled, any user who signs up for an account in PostHog through any SSO provider, will be automatically added to that organization. If it's not and the user logs in, we let them create a new organization as is the regular flow.
4. Admins can run a test login with their SAML configuration without enabling SAML.
5. As implicitly stated above when SAML is enabled for an organization, it will be **enforced** for that organization. However, if the organization has no SAML configured, there'll be a parameter `sso_enforcement` on `OrganizationDomain` model which can take values `google-oauth2`, `github` & `gitlab`. Admins will still to verify a specific domain before enabling this.
6. When any SAML login happens, if the user's email address domain does not match the verified domain, we reject the login and inform the user they need to verify their domain.
7. The login page now only shows the email input by default ([design on Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/gQBj9YnNgD8YW4nBwCVLZf/PostHog-App?node-id=8013%3A55797)) and SSO provider links. The user enters their email address in the input and we do a request as follows,
     ```
    GET /api/users/pre-login
    {
        "email": "test@posthog.com"
    }

    Response:
    {
        "sso_enforcement": "saml"
    }
    ```
    6.1 The `/api/users/pre-login` checks the user's **domain address only** to see if there's a SAML configuration with the domain (which has been DNS validated). If there is, we return `saml` in the `sso_enforcement` parameter (in which case the user gets redirected automatically), else we check if the `sso_enforcement` attribute is set in the `OrganizationDomain` configuration, `null` otherwise (whether there's a verified domain or not or a user with that email address or not).
8. Bug [#5759 Respect redirect URL when logging in with SAML](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/5759) should be addressed too.
9. If you have any SSO enforced, we now prefill your domain when creating user invites and only let you invite users to your org with an email address on a verified domain. We should fix [#5839 Fix team member invites with SAML](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/5839) by deleting any `OrganizationInvite`s for a user when an account is provisioned JiT.


## Additional considerations
- ~Drop `SAML_DISABLED` support to make maintenance easier and avoid having multiple build flows. Drawback is that the FOSS version which does not support SAML will still require the SAML dependencies.~
- For orgs with SAML enabled, if they lose access to their SAML server, their SAML server goes down or is compromised, they will lose access to their account and will have to contact us for help. This could happen with a misconfiguration too (but as this is an Enterprise feature, seems like a good risk/trade-off for now).
- At a later point we should implement a mechanism to keep reverifying DNS ownership (perhaps every 2-3 months). If ownership is lost, we disable the domain verification record and any `sso_enforcement` and Just-in-time (JIT) provisioning.
- Minor edge case. Let's say `marius@posthog.com` has an account on PostHog for a while now. Then comes `tim@posthog.com` who creates another organization, verifies ownership of `posthog.com` and enables SAML. `marius@posthog.com` will now only be able to log in with SAML. SSO enforcement is domain-based, not organization-based. 
- Users with existing accounts will not be added to organizations who have verified domains automatically, they'll have to be invited if applicable.