# Request for comments: Hire a YouTuber

PostHog is built on content + word of mouth. YouTube has proven to be an effective channel for word of mouth grow, based on the significant number of people mention YouTube (or Theo) on signup, but we don’t have the expertise to do content right there. We currently differentiate by creating great content and YouTube is a massive opportunity to do that.

YouTube rewards consistency and iteration. Our subscriber base and watch time continues to grow even though we don’t upload more videos. YouTube doesn’t work if you do it part time. You need to go all-in on video. 

I think we have seen some successes, but have been too scattered to really capitalize on them:

- Theo + YouTube mentions shows its promise
- Although YouTube **tutorials** about PostHog don’t seem to work super well, topic-based (like blogs) YouTube videos do.
- Although, anecdotally, my small number of YouTube videos get **more** mention than my blogs or newsletters from people, especially when they are learning PostHog. The complexity of PostHog lends itself to video. It is a great way to teach people how to use it.

Beyond YouTube, what could a YouTuber do:

- Create video social content + changelog like so many people have wanted to.
- Experiment with short form content.
- Collaborate with influencers (we have done this with newsletters and it works well). This would also help with my influencer plan.
- Read out 20,000 names (just kidding… unless…).

This does require the **right person**, a proper YouTuber, probably someone who already is one now. Not Theo or someone with hundreds of thousands of subs. I think this is a really cool role for them and PostHog is the right company to attract them. We could talk to the YouTubers we are working with now. 

**What does great look like?** YouTube grows as a source of signups. YouTuber is publishing multiple videos per week. Videos are consistently hitting 10k+ views, some viral hits. Developing video as expertise at PostHog.

**Why not another (writing) content person?** We need to fill for James. There is always more newsletters, docs, tutorials, and blogs to do, but I don’t feel it is enough to add another content person (beyond filling in for James).

## We shouldn’t wait for the community manager

Review comments:

> We should wait for the community manager

I do see where you are coming from on a community manager front, this will likely overlap with what their work is, but I disagree on it being the reason we should not hire someone here reasons.

1. The job listing for community manager went out June 7th-ish. This shows it takes a long time to hire for a role. It will take them more time to decide to join, onboard, and get used to the PostHog culture. It is a big unknown, both in terms of what they want to do and when it will happen. 

2. Unless I am misunderstanding, nowhere in the community manager role does it say they will be creating the content or deciding what content we will be creating. I think content creation sits squarely in the marketing camp even though we will of course be collaborating and working with the community manager.

3. I do think the YouTuber will have a better idea of what content will work on YouTube. We already have some sense of this, but don’t have the bandwidth to execute. For example, more content like: [demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2jQco8hEvTI), [Clickhouse vs Postgres](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iLXXoDaFoxs), [event tracking guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LIJ_TuyMq74), [modern data stack sucks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2N2cvCmv4us). The community manager will also be scattered with other initiatives and not dedicate themselves to YouTube like I am suggesting. 

4. I still see influencer work sitting entirely with the community manager. It makes it EASIER for them to do their job by having a YouTuber to collaborate with. It brings us to the attention of more YouTubers. 

I’m perfectly fine with this being a “no, we shouldn’t hire a YouTuber” but I don’t think “we should let the community manager decide” is the right answer. Other ones that I think could be better reasons:

- We don’t want to spend more on content, would rather focus on paid ads and other growth marketing.
- We really don’t think YouTube would work even though it is driving a significant amount of signup mentions.
- We want to hire this role, but we have too much on our plate hiring a content marketer and community manager. We should wait until they are hired and hire someone 1-3 months later. Not because they will decide for us, but because we don’t have time.
- Something else 🤷

### Next steps:

- Charles + Andy + James: Yes/No
- Create job post
- Ian reaches out to influencers we already work with
